---
layout: post
title:  "Day Chan"
date:   2016-05-10 01:00:00
last_modified_at:  2016-05-10 01:00:00
excerpt: "Day Chan is a graphic designer and farmer from Hong Kong working in Seattle, Washington."
categories: profiles
tags:  profile
image:
  feature: day.jpg
  topPosition: 0px
bgContrast: dark
bgGradientOpacity: darker
syntaxHighlighter: no
---
*I met Day on University Way after an introduction from a common friend who had worked with him. She told me about Day and not only about the great work he was doing with Olsen Farms, but also about his unique outlook on life. Needless to say, by the end of the interview, I had run out of words of admiration. *

**Where are you from and how was growing up over there?**

I was born in Hong Kong and I think similar to Mexico, it was more towards the tropics, more towards the Equator. My parents took me to the ocean, to learn how to swim. So warm oceans. So being up here is really different, one of the things I miss the most about home is the warm oceans. 

I moved when I was eight, so most of my life was spent just going to school, and school was really rough. Teachers were rough. Parents were rough because teachers were rough, and life is rough for a lot of people there. 

**Did you have any big influences growing up?**
My folks mainly kept to themselves, they hung out with their relatives, their families, but they didn't really make many friends, so they really didn't teach us how to make friends. So a lot of my influences are still from my parents. And now as I get older I realize all the things they taught me and why they taught me those things. And who I am and how I see myself from them and the place we come from.

**Temo**: Growing up, I experienced the same. I ignored so much things that I ignored that my parents told me, and now that I'm here I understand they did it for a reason

**Day**: Absolutely, and sometimes they make it hard for a reason. It should be hard so you can learn.

**Now tell me about your process of coming here to the United States? Why the US? How did you got here to Seattle?**

My grandfather was in, I think, the army in China and was in a ship that was near New York, and he jumped off the boat and swam to New York. And then a year later my grandmother came. And then a couple of her kids. They were here for a few years, and then my parents came shortly after that with me and my two brothers. 

**Temo:** Wait, so we are talking New York, and now you're in Seattle

**Day:** Yea I have a friend here and came to visit him. I was in Washington for just two weeks, then when I went back to New York I realized I didn't belong to New York, and I bought a plane ticket and just left. I've been here since 2001, so almost fifteen years. And I feel that from Hong Kong to New York which are really crazy,big city places, I like Seattle because it's smaller, slower, and it has a lot of nature that connects the people to the nature. Like on a sunny day people come out, whereas in New York people won't come out because of work or other things to do. People here are more in tune with reality. But I like Seattle a lot, I've grown roots here, and I've found more of my place and my people.

**What is the thing you like the most about Seattle?**

Seattle is pretty much built into the nature. Downtown is really tiny, and once you're out of there you're all in these neighborhoods where there is not a lot of big buildings, and it becomes more about just the people living such neighborhoods instead of huge cities.

**What about the least thing you like about Seattle?**

Right now, I hate the driving! If you're driving, please be careful out there. Always look, because there are other people who are no longer looking.

**Now tell me about your job. What do you do here?**

Right now I work at the farmer's market, I've been working for 7 years there. I was shopping from Olsen Farms, and I just asked them if they needed help and they said yes. 

I also have a degree in graphic design from Cornish, and what I do with that I tutor kids with art lessons. I've been working with a family for about six years, and they have introduced me to more families. 

**Temo:** Wow! Is it like drawing classes? 

**Day:** Drawing, painting, whatever they want. My main focus is to get to know them and learn about what they like, and from there I can teach them things. I can show them things I even learned in college that are applicable if you tailor it to their interests. Anything you know, kids can learn so long you explain it to them. Kids are smart!

One other thing is that I'm also throwing a lot of pottery. I've been painting throughout all my life, but I've been throwing pottery for the last seven years. I truly love this art form. What it does for my body, for my awareness, how it teaches me every time I touch the clay. 

What it's important for me is that I love everything that I do, every moment of it. I like working in the farmer's market because I like these people. I was shopping for them before I worked for them, and now they take care of me like a part of their family. Same thing with my students. And I also really like spending time in the studio because it's a place where I can creatively focus and work.

**Now, Olsen Farms, what led you to this job?**

What led me to these jobs was working tons and tons of jobs that I hated. I've worked all my life, starting when I was 14-15, delivering newspapers. I've filled every possible cashier job, gas stations, grocery stores, art stores. I've learned quickly that it doesn't really matter what you're doing, but it more matters who you are doing it around. If you enjoy the people you are with every single day, it doesn't matter how hard the job is, you're having a good time.

But that also I like being around the people that also work hard. Sure, we're having a good time, but we can get so much done because we are all doing these things because we want to, not because we're being told. 

What attracted you to farming?
--- Around min 17

**Now I want to learn more about your inspirations. What most motivates you to do what you're doing right now?**

That I'm learning, and that it makes me happy. If I'm in a place where I'm not learning or it isn't bringing me joy, I remove myself from those situations. I'm trying to learn how to make better friends in a similar way. If I meet someone that I feel like they're just sucking away all my energy, I'm just not gonna spend my time with them, cause I can have a better time even just walking by myself.

**Tell me about your goals, any work related or personal goals?**

There's always a lot of goals. I've met many goals by finding the jobs I love to do. I've spent so much time working crappy jobs that now I'm doing everything I do for the joy and love of it. It's also a good goal because my parents immigrated here, and they've had the same jobs since they move here. They didn't learn English, and they didn't chose to open out. But, they have three college sons who are all college graduates! For my mom who never even went to school, because she wasn't allowed to, now has three sons in America, bilingual, and happy. 

Personally I'm also working on things like pottery, or playing piano. I'm learning a lot about people, socializing, and I'm learning much later in my life than most people. But there is no specific timeline for people to learn things. Anyone can learn anything if they chose to. Who cares to if they start way later, it even may be better. 

**What do you think is the most challenging part of being an Immigrant in the US is?**
We immigrated to Staten Island, and there the neighborhood I was in was full of immigrants from all over the place. There was a neighborhood of just Albanians, people from Poland, but everyone immigrated from somewhere. But because everyone immigrated from somewhere, not everyone leave a place by choice. Most people leave because they have to. Most people wouldn't leave their homeland. If they have to, something is forcing them to leave. And you would think that in Staten Island with all these immigrants, they would come together. But instead, you have everyone mistrusting one another because none of them wanted to move. So you have all these people that don't trust each other and don't have the language to talk to each other.

I think that's one of the hardest parts for immigrants. Once they get here, learn what socializing it. I'm still learning about it. It takes a lifetime to learn those kinds of things.

**Right now there's this negative perception towards immigrants, is there anything we can do to change this?**

I think it's changing right now, faster and faster. What would change these perceptions is when they talk to one another face to face. When a person talks to another person they will learn about their personal experiences, and learn that everyone came from somewhere. Things like racism are taught, because I don't think kids are naturally racists since it doesn't make sense. Kids when they see each other, will just play! They don't judge because somebody's different, everything is different to them. What I think will change people's mind is when they talk one another, because when this happens, they learn that whatever they knew, was wrong. 

I think one of the things that's changing the world is the internet. Everything is talking to one another. Things cannot hide as much. People are getting more information, and people are falling in love with people all over the world. The world is getting smaller and smaller.

**What do you wish you had known when you got here?**

All the things that have happened, makes you who you are presently. Even the things I might not have liked, I wouldn't change a single thing. Because I went to some really rough shit growing up, and really hard things as an adult. And because of these, my scope of compassion feelings is wider because I came from such low places, and it also allows me to feel great joy on a regular basis.

There are tough lessons out there, but they need to be there. Without them, really moving songs are not gonna move you unless you know tragic moments. That was makes music joyful or sad, your experiences that are connected with it. The more you feel, the more you will appreciate.

**What is something your friends say you're good at?**

I'm told often that I'm calm. And because I'm calm, other people feel calm around me. It forces other people to slow down. 

Would you rather be smart or lucky, and why?
-- Min 38

What do you think will change in the next 5 years?
-- Min 39

**If you could you describe yourself in one word, what would it be, and why?**

I would describe myself as "susurrus". 

**What does that even mean? 
**It's like a soft sound. Maybe like hay moving through a field. Going back to what my friends say, I love silence. Silence allows things to be heard. It's like when you're making chocolate chip cookies and you need to put the salt which allows you to taste the difference. Silence allows you to hear the different sounds out there. We're living in a culture with more and more information. Texts, billboards, and when you have so much of those, what can be heard? What can be seen? 

Where can people find you?
-- min 43


**What would you tell to someone that's immigrating to another place, or just here to the US?**

I would tell them this is a great place. There are many places I'm fascinated by around the world. In America, people do whatever they want. And I think that's what's great about here. It's like a blank slate, an open canvas, it has its history but it's also full of possibilities. Even English itself is a fascinating language that's constantly changing. I think this is a great place for change. Maybe families leave places because they had to. But those changes are good. They may be hard, but hard changes open your eyes, and allows more opportunities. 

